---
layout: post
title: Ankle Exoskeleton to Improve Mobility and Gait Training
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/exo_small.png
share-img: /assets/img/exo_small.png

tags: [exoskeleton, rehabilitation, gait]
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---



## Background

Robotic wearable technology is advancing to augment functions of people with and without impairments. For example, lower-limb exoskeletons can help people with gait deficit to walk faster and easier. The ultimate goal is to develop devices that can be used in the community. However, most devices have only been tested in the lab at current stage.

A major part of my postdoctoral research is to evaluate a custom untethered ankle exoskeleton and quantify its performance on the treadmill, on multiple terrains, and in controlled real-world environment. We also looked at the potential benefits of using the device in gait training for people with neurological conditions.

<!--more-->

The primary target population are people with cerebral palsy (CP); additionally, we have tested the device in those with spinal cord injury, stroke, or Guillain-Barré syndrome.

## Purpose
1) Evaluate wearable ankle exoskeleton assistance on graded and real-world mixed-terrain walking in individuals with gait impairments.

2) Determine how repeated back-to-back over-ground walking with ankle exoskeleton assistance affects gait and muscle activity in individuals with cerebral palsy.

3) Compare unilateral vs. bilateral assistance.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='bfZM0dql8R4' %}


## Findings

1. Wearable adaptive ankle exoskeleton assistance can safely and effectively increase ankle function and improve the energy cost of steady-state incline walking and stair ascent in individuals with CP. All participants can safely navigate level ground and stairs in controlled real-world environments wearing the device, with more impaired participants exhibiting a marked benefit.

2. Back-to-back over-ground gait training using an untethered ankle exoskeleton improved walking speed and step length in CP. Following training, we observed improved ankle plantar-flexor activation patterns while walking with the exoskeleton, and a favorable increase in stride-to-stride repeatability of the ankle plantar-flexor and knee extensor muscles during walking both with and without the device.

3. Bilateral assistance was more reliably effective than unilateral assistance in improving clinically relevant treadmill and over-ground walking performance. However, because each participant responded differently, our results suggest that clinicians should adopt personalized interventions to maximize patient outcomes. 

## Future directions

1.	Completing longer, randomized controlled trial of wearable ankle exoskeleton assistance with larger sample size.

2.	Exploring the potential factors (i.e., age, impairment level, etc.) influencing participant responses.

3.	Implementing longer duration mixed-terrain walking in controlled settings, and eventually longer-term testing in uncontrolled free-living environments. 


## Resources

### Publications
- [Improving the Energy Cost of Incline Walking and Stair Ascent with Ankle Exoskeleton Assistance in Cerebral Palsy](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1uGwKAfJFnProkGlR7543lYSeh9-C9i47/view?usp=sharing)
- How Ankle Exoskeleton Assistance Affects the Mechanics of Incline Walking and Stair Ascent in Cerebral Palsy
- [Adaptive Ankle Exoskeleton Gait Training Demonstrates Acute Neuromuscular and Spatiotemporal Benefits for Individuals with Cerebral Palsy](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eXigMNTdMOHbyOg6BE7nQpmf-Zk2a7hJ/view?usp=sharing)
- [Ankle Exoskeleton Assistance Can Improve Over-Ground Walking Economy in Individuals With Cerebral Palsy](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1eXigMNTdMOHbyOg6BE7nQpmf-Zk2a7hJ/view?usp=sharing)
- [Bilateral vs. Paretic-Limb-Only Ankle Exoskeleton Assistance for Improving Hemiparetic Gait: A Case Series](https://drive.google.com/file/d/16oBCtTB7lalpI6GlZ-P5ESbcozhxtkNI/view?usp=sharing)


### Others
**ASB2021 Podium Presentation**

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vStirwXafXTNXDYvTT5RI0Me_fDA_7iHyKXng8MGO7HpPMhC0Z0ntoiKN05D99I_jFFQwt4jpCAmPKB/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="360" height="300" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>
