---
layout: post
title: FES-Rowing and Bone Health in Spinal Cord Injury
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/boneCTandFE.png
share-img: /assets/img/boneCTandFE.png

tags: [finite element modeling, musculoskeletal modeling]
---


### Purpose

Determine whether 1-year functional electrical stimulation rowing (FES-rowing) with and without Zoledronic Acid could affect bone strength in people with spinal cord injury (SCI)

### Background

People with SCI have a high fracture risk at the knee. Therapies that prevent bone loss or stimulate a bone formation response have been proposed to reduce fractures.

During my PhD, I analyzed CT scans and developed finite element models to calculate bone strength of people who received FES-rowing training with and without Zoledronic Acid (a druge that inhibits bone resorption).
I also estimated joint loading during FES-rowing using musculoskeletal modeling.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id='Y19uJ12F5s0' %}

### Findings

1. FES-rowing alone has a neglectable effect on maintaining bone quality compared to FES-rowing combined with Zoledronic Acid.

2. The SCI user received much smaller knee loads during FES-rowing compared to the mechanical loads from daily activities (i.e.,walking).

### Future directions

Modifying FES technology or the design of the rowing machine may manipulate joint loading and potentially improve the osteogenic benefit of FES-rowing.


### Acknowledgement

This project was funded by [American Society of Biomechanics Grant-in-Aid](https://asbweb.membershiptoolkit.com/awards) and completed in collaboration with Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital.


### Resources

[Phd Dissertation]()

[Grant-in-Aid proposal]()

**Fang, Y.**, Morse, L.R., Nguyen, N., Battaglino, R.A., Goldstein, R., Troy, K.L. [Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) Assisted Rowing Combined with Zoledronic Acid, but Not Alone, Preserves Distal Femur Strength and Stiffness in People with Chronic Spinal Cord Injury.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/12Np8t_3UADia5gEpQ_0sNO3GvD7fLEUa/view?usp=sharing) Osteoporosis International.

**Fang, Y.**, Troy, K.L. [Effect of Adapted Ergometer Setup and Rowing Speed on Lower Extremity Loading in People with and without Spinal Cord Injury.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MK8jL9epdITQzy4WEnQGa1uyShb0lG1K/view?usp=sharing) medRxiv (non-peer reviewed).

Morse, L.R., Troy, K.L. **Fang, Y.**, Nguyen, N., Battaglino, R.A., Goldstein, R., Zafonte, R., Gupta, R., Taylor, J.A. [Combination Therapy with Zoledronic Acid and FES-row Training Reduces Bone Loss in the Paralyzed Legs: Results of a Randomized Comparative Clinical Trial.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iWKiK1Sea8Ge4oaFQC0trLJLKdR1Gvpj/view?usp=sharing) J of Bone and Mineral Research, 2019.

**Fang, Y.**, Morse, L.R., Nguyen, N., Tsantes, N.G., Troy, K.L. [Anthropometric and Biomechanical Characteristics of Body Segments in Persons with Spinal Cord Injury.](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19KXZMypWCYessVHFEyQ38FKaDQ6M_xVk/view?usp=sharing) J of Biomechanics, 2017.							
